# Mizizi 

Plant disease detection and analysis is a huge challenge for farmers at large mainly because of the lack of information about the various diseases that affect plants. Agronomists thus serve a huge role in helping in the control of diseases. However this is very inefficient since agronomists can only serve but so many people. We thus sook to create an application that aids this process.
The aim was to create a disease detection model using machine learning techniques. We then went on to create a mobile application that authenticates users to access plant diseases resources as well as manage their data. The application is able to provide alert posts with geographical location to users on an outbreak of disease. The users can then create a share link between farmers with the application and outside farmers that need information to be shared.
We carried out extensive research from different age groups and levels of experience amongst farmers to identify the various challenges they experienced in agriculture as well as the benefits they would expect from such an application, Plant disease detection as well as disease management were largely agreed upon by the farmers. This features were therefore critically required in the application for it to be viable.
Going forward, the application will require to cover more diseases as well as giving more detail on how to control diseases. It should also contain a functionality for farmers to get information on preventive measures to avoid diseases.
